### Server Software Component: Web Shell [\[T1505.003\]](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1505/003)

A web shell is a web-based implementation of a command shell.  A web shell is generally a malicious web page or code snippet introduced into an existing web server or application to provide unauthorized access.  This access can be an actual CLI shell, file management or database access tool.  This is a common tactic because malicious traffic blends in with benign traffic to/from the web server, and it can be difficult to identify via IDS signatures because the specifics of the web shell are easily changed.

When a web shell executes, it runs with web server software user permissions, which should be limited. Attackers use web shells to attempt privilege escalation attacks by exploiting local vulnerabilities on the system to assume root privileges.

Detecting web shells on the network using signature-based detections is relatively straightforward - web shells have specific file paths, communications methods, or other behaviors that can trigger an alert.  Like most ‘atomic’ IOCs, they are easy to evade because they identify specific behaviors that can easily be changed. Where possible, you should supplement signature detection with a threat hunting program to find more general behaviors of anomalous activity.

Web shells attempt to hide malicious activity in normal HTTP traffic, so the `http` log is an excellent data source for investigation of web shell activity.  Examples of hunt hypotheses supported by Corelight HTTP data are:

- Web shells can cause unusual HTTP POST activity.  This may be as simple as unexpected HTTP POSTs in the `method` field of the `http` log where GETs are expected (if the affected site is primarily serving content).
- ‘Normal’ web traffic travels to a shortlist of common pages, with navigation via an internal hyperlink.  A web shell goes directly to the hidden page and appears as an HTTP request with no referring page.
- ‘Normal’ web traffic shows a variety of requesting IPs, user-agent strings, JA3s, etc.  A web shell can have a more homogenous group of users.
- Suspicious logins originating from internal subnets to DMZ servers and vice versa.

This type of hunt analysis and anomaly detection is an effective way to identify malicious (or suspicious) activity, but modern networks are noisy, chaotic places. As with most hunts, you must know what ‘normal’ data looks like so that you can successfully filter it out.

(https://github.com/nsacyber/Mitigating-Web-Shells)

#### Sigma Queries for Hunting

|Name|URL|
|--|--|
|Possible Webshell PUT or POST to unusual extensions|https://tdm.socprime.com/tdm/info/8MxVH1LrXaqC |
|Possible Webshell - Rare PUT or POST by IP|https://tdm.socprime.com/tdm/info/ziGUN3XEwXOw |
|Possible Webshell - Dirty Word List|https://tdm.socprime.com/tdm/info/bKdppdAA1oBE |
|Possible Directory Traversal Web Server Attack|https://tdm.socprime.com/tdm/info/yM8eyo85tvw2 |
|HTTP POST or PUT URI Non ASCII Character|https://tdm.socprime.com/tdm/info/YaxfhZXZa9hY |
|Possible Webshell PUT or POST to non-root URI without referer|(./T1505.003-put-or-post-to-non-root-uri-without-referer.yml)[./T1505.003-put-or-post-to-non-root-uri-without-referer.yml]|
