### Remote Desktop Protocol [\[T1021.001\]](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1021/001/)

The Microsoft Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) is used to remotely control a Windows endpoint. This protocol can be abused by an attacker to gain unauthorized access to your network (see _Initial Access: External Remote Services_). Once an intruder is inside, they can use RDP to move laterally among devices.

RDP is one of the many protocols parsed by Corelight. For some environments, the presence of RDP, or its presence on specific systems, is sufficient to trigger an investigation. For networks where RDP is permitted, the Zeek `rdp` log is rich in information that helps establish whether a connection is legitimate, for example, recording data like keyboard layout, encryption levels, or client name for a connection.

When hunting with the rdp log:
1. Focus on the `id.orig_h`, `id.resp_h`, `id.resp_p`, and `cookie` fields. The `cookie` field can contain any arbitrary value sent by the RDP client to the server, but it often contains the username sent by the RDP client.
2. Aggregate the records based on these four fields and show a count for each unique set.
3. Iterate through the set and identify the origin and destination of each connection (for example, you can use the records from the `dns` and `dhcp` logs).
4. Some RDP connections will use a non-standard keyboard layout. To look for this, examine the `keyboard_layout` field. Count the number of instances of each value and apply data stacking to look for outlying or rarely occurring values.
5. Identify the origin and destination and determine whether the non-standard keyboard layout is expected, for instance, if the origin user is known to have a non-English language as their primary language, and that language is the requested language in the RDP connection.

After you have this information ask several questions:

- Does the `cookie` value match the expected user at the source or destination machine?
- Is there a legitimate reason for the originator to be using RDP?
- Are there any users using RDP where you wouldn’t expect that for their job function?
