### Subvert Trust Controls: Install Root Certificate [\[T1553.004\]](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1553/004)

Public certificates are used to establish secure TLS/SSL communications. Root certificates are used to identify the root certificate authority (CA). Root certificates are self-signed and form an anchor of trust for public key cryptography. For example, when a root certificate is installed, the system or application will trust certificates in the root's chain of trust. While no network-level device (for example routers and switches) can show the certificate chain installed on a client system, the point of installing a malicious root certificate is to bypass trust validation.

Using Corelight data, you can observe all aspects of the TLS/SSL session using the `ssl` and  `x509` logs. These two logs allow analysts to identify certificates that seem suspicious by:

- Search the `ssl` log for any entries where the `validation_status` field doesn’t have a value of `ok`.
- Review records where the `validation_status` field either has a self-signed certificate or contains a self-signed certificate in the certificate chain.
- Review the `subject` and `server_name` fields to determine the likely organization or website that controls the server.
- Filter results where there are legitimate self-signed certificates in use, such as in communications between IOT devices and the supporting cloud infrastructure.
- Investigate the `id.resp_h` IP address to see what Autonomous System the session belongs to and whether it’s a reasonable AS organization (such as the organization that matches the information on the server, or a commonly-used cloud hosting provider).
For remaining connections, use the values in the `cert_chain_fuids` to pivot to the certificates in the `x509` log and review the certificate details.
- Focus investigations by inspecting the local root certificate authority on the endpoint.
